detective recapped here today i'm going
to explain a crime thriller film called
the departed spoilers ahead watch out
and take care
somewhere in boston irish mob boss
francis frank costello stops by a local
store
the store owner hands him some money and
frank tells him that he shouldn't make
him come down personally again just for
that
the store owner complies he notices the
store owner's daughter as she mans the
counter and frank behaves rudely to her
nobody dares to bat an eye especially
against a man like
frank sitting at his table a young colin
sullivan watches frank
he notices the boy and asks if he's
johnny sullivan's kid
colin says yes then frank proceeds to
order the people at the store to buy a
full bag of groceries for him and his
grandmother
who he's living with over time frank
becomes a mentor to colin and teaches
him about his perspective in life
a man makes his own way no one gives it
to you you have to take it
after graduating from the academy colin
grows up to be a cop
he manages to be a part of the special
investigation unit
on the same day another newbie named
william billy coast again is also trying
to get into the same unit
however upon entering the room to meet
the team staff sergeant sean dignam is
immediately all over billy
he antagonizes and undermines him at
every turn questioning his lineage
family and personal history finally
the unit declines billy because of his
family's criminal history
they tell him that he's no cop and he'll
never be a massachusetts state
trooper just then captain queen and
staff sergeant dignim changed their tone
since billy's family history makes him a
shoe-in for blending into the criminal
world
he's given a special assignment the siu
wants him to go undercover and go on a
fake charge to infiltrate
frank costello's gang billy makes
preparations in the criminal underworld
then pays a visit to his cousin to give
him the right connections
his cousin mentions a guy named miles
kennefick a friend of theirs who
recently died
billy's cousin decides to help him get
connected and they go to meet two guys
in a bar
billy's cousin converses with them and
they start to recognize billy as
jackie's kid
doubt begins to brew as they wonder if
billy's a cop or not
to prove himself billy proceeds to hit a
guy in the bar
almost starting a fight one of the guys
stops him and tells him to keep his cool
he walks up to the man that billy hidden
after telling him that billy is jackie's
kid
he continues to beat him up further at
the station staff sergeant dignam
reports miles kennefick to the siu miles
was a man who stole computer chips that
could send programmed missiles
colin is there and he recognizes miles
as someone who used to work with frank
later on colin drops by miles's home to
speak with his mother in hopes of
getting an interview and some
information from her
just then frank drives by when mrs
kennefick saw frank
she becomes scared for her life then
tells colin and his partner to leave
colin looks behind and spots a blue
sedan and a white van tailing frank
he returns to the police station after
that in the elevator
he meets their local psychologist
madeline they start a flirtatious
exchange then make plans for dinner
as madeline leaves colin gets a call
from frank
colin tells his mentor about the
vehicles following him prompting frank
to outmaneuver them until he escapes
their vision
meanwhile billy continues to build his
reputation by impulsively hitting two
mob guys charging protection money from
a store owner
he soon finds his way to frank's bar the
mob boss appears in person then
approaches billy to tell him that the
men he hit were members of a rival gang
down in providence
he claims that they'll come back to kill
him unless frank does something about it
he proceeds to interrogate billy until
he's convinced that he isn't a cop
as he leaves frank tells billy that
he'll take care of the providence
situation he got himself into
the men from providence are dead and
colin gets assigned to the crime scene
frank tells colin to take a handgun from
the glove compartment in the car they
were in
which belonged to someone from frank's
rival gang he was framed for the murder
and got locked up
meanwhile billy meets with frank and his
henchman mr french
billy wears a wire with queen and dignim
on the other end of the line
but he rips it out the first chance he
got despite his duties he's terrified of
what might happen
if frank finds out colin continues to
serve as frank small
making sure that the cops never get too
close to him as for billy
he begins to get affected while running
with mr french and shooting up folks
that do wrong to frank
sergeant dignam and captain queen and
informed billy that frank has a mole in
the siu with everything piling up
billy starts to feel pressured and he
goes to see dr madeleine
their counseling session gets heated
however when billy demands valium
madeleine plans to have billy
transferred to another counselor and
upon hearing that
he asks her if she'd like a cup of
coffee sometime the siu makes
preparations for an operation to bust
frank costello who's about to sell the
microchips to the chinese
colin is surprised especially when he
discovers this at the last minute
he gets further taken aback when he's
told that there's an undercover cop in
frank's gang
fearing that frank would get caught
colin quickly calls to warn him and
inform him that the phones are all
tapped
during their meeting the siu couldn't
see or hear much because frank and his
men were using blind spots
thanks to colin's warning they all
turned their phones off too
but with billy on the inside he keeps
his phone on and informs queen and that
the buyers are there
the deal goes down and the [ __ ]
leave by boat
days later the police arrest the
[ __ ] and discover that the
microprocessors that frank sold were
fake
queen and dignim confront frank about
this but he only shrugs it off and
leaves
colin and madeline are now living
together frank tells colin that he's
going to need his help to find the mole
in his gang
otherwise colin will be the one who'll
get in trouble colin says that he'll
need his men's government members and
bank accounts to help trace who the guy
might be
while billy's making rounds with mr
french the guy he's hitting up suddenly
slips
he mentions that frank is a protected
informant of the fbi
hence why he never gets convicted the
next chance he got
billy goes to visit queen at his house
to report this information
the following day billy meets up with mr
french and the rest of costello's men
they ask about his full name social
security number
bank account etc billy places his form
on a marked envelope and leaves against
castella's instruction
he heads to madeleine's old apartment
and finds her packing her things to move
to colin's place
eventually madeline and billy sleep
together despite her relationship with
colin
meanwhile captain ellerby of the siu
assigns colin to investigate who frank's
mole in the police force is
elsewhere billy stalks frank and sees
him holding the envelopes
billy tracks him down to a dirty movie
theater where he goes to meet colin
billy sits in the back row and has
trouble identifying colin from the back
frank hands him the envelopes before
taking his leave with colin leaving
shortly after him
billy springs up and follows colin down
the street and into the night
just as billy's about to catch up to him
colin realizes that he's being tailed
in retaliation he stabs the figure
walking behind him when he looks to see
who it was
colin sees that he stabbed the wrong guy
he immediately makes a run for it and
though billy tries to follow him
he eventually loses the rat afterward
billy meets frank at his bar and his
so-called boss confronts him
frank intimidates him already bearing
suspicion that billy's the mole but of
course
he completely denies this for the time
being frank lets it go and leaves
at the station colin is now under
suspicion by queen and indignam
queen summons colin to his office and
gives him advice on how to find frank's
mole
meanwhile frank changes his crew members
for a job at the last minute and gives
billy a night off
by switching his cruise frank can
confirm his suspicions on who the rat is
when colin checks the numbers he
couldn't find a match on billy since his
records were all erased by queenan's
department
he reports this to frank then follows
queenian's advice follow frank until he
eventually finds his rat
but this time he uses that very idea on
queen and he follows him around to find
out who his informant is
he orders the force to follow queen and
despite the policeman's hesitation
later queen and billy meet at the top of
an abandoned building and colin uses the
information to tip off frank's man
fortunately for billy frank's men give
him a call telling him to come and help
get queenen's guy witch
unknown to them is billy himself he and
queen and try to escape before frank's
men arrive but queen and decides to stay
back and stall them
billy leaves the building but queening
gets thrown out falling to his death
the police witness this happen and
exchange fire with frank's men
resulting in one of them getting shot in
the stomach frank's men
together with billy make their escape at
costello's hideout
billy almost gets caught when the dying
man tries to reveal that he gave billy
the wrong address but he arrived at the
right one anyway
before he's able to tell anyone the man
dies at the police station
colin gets in a feud with dignam who was
questioning him about why he was
following queen
in the first place dignim assaults colin
before resigning from the force
later on colin calls using queenon's
phone to find out who the mole is
but billy thinks carefully about whether
he should answer or not
finally he decides to answer it both men
listen and wait for the other to speak
until billy hangs up
later on billy decides to call the
number and talk
the two men keep the farce going but
they ultimately fail to identify each
other
after the call holland rifles through
queen and things and finds out that
frank is an fbi informant
later on it is revealed that the
costello lackey who died was
actually an undercover cop costello
hears about this on the news and lets
his suspicions of billy go
frank is about to make a large drug deal
with billy and the rest of his gang
on the way to a warehouse frank and
billy get tailed by the police
colin convinces them to let the tail go
since billy sent colin their destination
the cops give frank space and wait for
him to arrive to the warehouse
the drug deal ensues and the cops take
positions surrounding the building
milly realizes that a shootout is about
to go down so he leaves the warehouse
immediately
the police ambush frank and his men and
manages to shoot frank in the stomach
frank tries to escape near the back of
the warehouse with his endangered life
he calls colin on the phone for help
when colin arrives
however he confronts frank about his
role as an fbi informant then asks if he
sold him to them
frank says no to this before trying to
shoot colin but he ends up missing
colin shoots him back finally killing
frank with frank costello dead
the operation is labeled as a success
the siu celebrate colin as the one who
took the mob boss down
billy now waits at colin's office when
asked if he wanted to return as a cop
milly says he just wants his identity
back colin requests his password to the
case files and the unsuspecting billy
complies
for a while colin leaves the room to
delete billy's files
while waiting at his office billy
notices the very envelope he used to
fill out a form for frank costello and
realizes that colin is the mole
billy leaves and visits madeleine he
gives her a brown envelope and asks her
to keep it for him until he gets killed
or if he gives her a call to open it
at colin and madeline's place madeline
tells colin that she's pregnant
on the same day while colin is showering
madeline checks their mail and finds a
letter from billy
madeleine opens it and finds a cd she
decides to listen to it and finds a
recording of colin talking with frank
completely outraged madeline refuses to
speak with colin
he then reads the letter and checks the
recording afterward
he dials the number on billy's letter
and talks with billy who wants the two
of them to meet in the building where
queen and died
colin arrives at the rooftop and billy
takes him by surprise by pointing a gun
at his head
another police officer arrives in this
time it's the man that billy was friends
with in the academy
trooper brown brown points the gun at
billy and tells him to drop the weapon
so they could talk
brown is confused he doesn't know who he
could trust
billy takes the elevator down and tells
brown to help him arrest colin
by the time the elevator door opens
billy gets shot in the head by colin's
friend in the police force
trooper barrigan he explains that frank
had more than just one mole in the force
and that frank was about to sell the two
of them to the fbi just then
brown arrives from the stairs and
barrigan shoots him dead as well
while colin is going through billy's
corpse he takes his gun and shoots
barrigan
in the end colin is the only one who
left the building alive
colin spins an elaborate story about
their situation in the building
he also recommends billy a medal of
merit out of guilt for killing him and
attends his funeral
at the funeral madeline is also there
perhaps thinking to herself that she
chose to be with the wrong man
madeline still has billy's envelope and
its contents are later revealed to be a
message to dignim
one day colin is walking back to his
apartment
when he steps inside the room he sees
dignim in a tracksuit and clothed
footwear
before he could react dignim shoots
colin straight in the head
finally avenging billy's death subscribe
to watch more videos like this
turn on notifications and leave a like
it really helps the channel out
thank you for watching